# 💻 Communication and architecture

Detecctor-v2 is using the microservice architecture. The solution consists of two main services: a notification and
plugin service. The services communicate to each other using MQTT protocol and EMQ X broker. The client-server
communication with Detecc (the client) also occurs on the MQTT protocol.

## Server-client communication

### 📃 Payload struct

The messages sent to and from the server are in **JSON** format, encoded with **base64** encoding. The JSON object sent
to and from the client is the `Payload` struct.

The `Id` field is a UUID, generated by the server when a command is issued and processed by the server plugin. It maps
the `Payload` to the `ChatId` when the client responds and the server interprets the response.

The `ServiceNodeKey` attribute is used to identify the target client and to map the response of the client to a request.

The `Data` contains the data produced by server and client plugins.

The `Command` is used to find and execute the correlating plugin on the client and process the response with the same
plugin.

Both the `Success` and `Error` attributes are used for error handling in both client and server.

```go
package shared

type Payload struct {
	Id             string
	ServiceNodeKey string
	Data           interface{}
	Command        string
	Success        bool
	Error          string
}
```

### Creating a new Payload

When creating a `Payload` in the plugin, please use the provided Payload API.

```go
package example

import . "github.com/detecc/detecctor-v2/model/payload"

func CreateNewPayload() {
	NewPayload(ForClient("sampleClientId"), WithData("sampleData"), Successful())
}
```

## ⚙️Service-to-service communication

Check out the following:

- [plugin mqtt topics](plugin/mqtt-topics.md)
- [notifications mqtt topics](notifications/mqtt-topics.md)